doc/autonomous_navigation.md, before:

## Move Autonomously While Extracting Map of the Environment with SLAM

# How to run?
* First start the simulation environment.
```
$ roslaunch kamu_robotu_gazebo kamu_map.launch
```
* Start SLAM process.
```
$ roslaunch kamu_robotu_launch oko_slam.launch
```
* Start move_base node which takes goals to navigate the robot
to a desired point
```
$ roslaunch kamu_robotu_navigation move_base.launch
```
* Run frontier_exploration which creates goals for move_base automatically to navigate autonomously
```
$ roslaunch kamu_robotu_navigation frontier.launch
```
* In Rviz window:
```
* Add Marker
* Choose marker topic: /exploration_polygon_marker
* Click publish point at the top of rviz window and 
select a point.
* Repeat above step to create a closed polygon.
* After your closed polygon becomes red color, click 
publish point button again to give an initial exploration point
to the robot.
```
After all these steps, robot will autonomously navigate and try to 
extract map of the overall environment inside the given polygon.

Commit message:

Frontier Exploration algorithm alternative is found and tested. The new package name is explore_lite. It makes greedy-frontier exploration and this could be much more benefical for our case. It does not require any initial marker selection. Moreover, frontier visualization is added to mapping_demo.rviz. Lastly, autonomous navigation doc is updated. In the future, exploration lite parameters and move_base parameters should be investigated more to select best parameters for our case. For now, it works quite well.

doc/autonomous_navigation.md, after:

# Move Autonomously While Extracting Map of the Environment with SLAM

### Frontier Exploration Tutorial
* First start the simulation environment.
```
$ roslaunch kamu_robotu_gazebo kamu_map.launch
```
* Start SLAM process.
```
$ roslaunch kamu_robotu_launch oko_slam.launch
```
* Start move_base node which takes goals to navigate the robot
to a desired point
```
$ roslaunch kamu_robotu_navigation move_base.launch
```
* Run frontier_exploration which creates goals for move_base automatically to navigate autonomously
```
$ roslaunch kamu_robotu_navigation frontier.launch
```
* In Rviz window:
```
* Add Marker
* Choose marker topic: /exploration_polygon_marker
* Click publish point at the top of rviz window and 
select a point.
* Repeat above step to create a closed polygon.
* After your closed polygon becomes red color, click 
publish point button again to give an initial exploration point
to the robot.
```
After all these steps, robot will autonomously navigate and try to 
extract map of the overall environment inside the given polygon.

### Explore Lite Tutorial
Explore lite is a greedy frontier based exploration algorithm and it can be used
instead of frontier-based exploration ROS package. 
* Follow above steps and after launching move_base, launch explore_lite instead
of frontier_exploration
```
$ roslaunch explore_lite explore.launch
```
