doc/cartographer_slam_tutorial.md, before:

# Cartographer_ROS SLAM Tutorial

### Installation

**Tested ROS Distribution:** Kinetic

I followed [this tutorial](https://google-cartographer-ros.readthedocs.io/en/latest/compilation.html#building-installation)

* Go to your home directory
```
$ cd ~
```
* Create a new catkin_ws to install cartographer_ros
```
$ mkdir cartog_ws
```
* Install **rosdep**, **wstool** and **rosdep**. Also install ninja to make build process faster
```
$ sudo apt-get update
$ sudo apt-get install -y python-wstool python-rosdep ninja-build
```
* Now install cartographer_ros
```
$ wstool init src
$ wstool merge -t src https://raw.githubusercontent.com/googlecartographer/cartographer_ros/master/cartographer_ros.rosinstall
$ wstool update -t src
$ ./src/cartographer/scripts/install_proto3.sh
$ rosdep update
$ rosdep install --from-paths src --ignore-src --rosdistro=${ROS_DISTRO} -y
$ catkin_make_isolated --install --use-ninja
```

### Run Cartographer ROS with Recorded Bag File
I followed [this tutorial](https://google-cartographer-ros.readthedocs.io/en/latest/your_bag.html)

**WARNING:** Don't forget to source bash file in cartog_ws to run nodes related to cartographer_ros.
```
$ source cartog_ws/install_isolated/setup.bash
```

* First, check whether recorded bag file is usable by cartographer or not.
```
$ cartographer_rosbag_validate -bag_filename /home/user/oko_slam/ros_ws/bagfiles/bagfilename.bag
```
If you don't see any error, then you can go further. If you see error, try to fix it. Otherwise, keep the error in mind and proceed further. However, if you can not obtain a map, download a bag file from [this link](https://google-cartographer-ros.readthedocs.io/en/latest/demos.html) and follow the steps there. Then try to arrange your bag file accordingly!
* For our case launch oko_cartographer.launch. It calls kamu_robotu.lua file which you need to copy to /home/user/cartog_ws/install_isolated/share/cartographer_ros/configuration_files directory. 
```
$ cd oko_slam/ros_ws/bagfiles/kamu_robotu.lua /home/user/cartog_ws/install_isolated/share/cartographer_ros/configuration_files
$ roslaunch kamu_robotu_launch oko_cartographer.launch
```
* Lastly play your bag file with clock
```
$ cd oko_slam/ros_ws/bagfiles
$ rosbag play --clock yourbagfile.bag
```
* Open rviz to see the map. Add map to rviz from left bottom.
```
$ rosrun rviz rviz
```

Commit message:

Cartographer_ROS tutorial is updated.Also in the previous commit, I fixed the kamu_cmd.h not found catkin_make problem.

doc/cartographer_slam_tutorial.md, after:

# Cartographer_ROS SLAM INSTALLATION GUIDE & TUTORIALS

Before this tutorial, please visit [HECTOR SLAM INSTALLATION GUIDE & TUTORIALS](/doc/hector_slam_tutorials.md)
Before this tutorial, please visit [GMAPPING INSTALLATION GUIDE & TUTORIALS](/doc/gmapping_tutorial.md)

## Prerequisites
* Ubuntu 16.04
* ROS Kinetic

## Installation
I followed [this tutorial](https://google-cartographer-ros.readthedocs.io/en/latest/compilation.html#building-installation)

* Go to your home directory
```
$ cd ~
```
* Create a new catkin_ws to install cartographer_ros
```
$ mkdir cartog_ws
```
* Install **rosdep**, **wstool** and **rosdep**. Also install ninja to make build process faster
```
$ sudo apt-get update
$ sudo apt-get install -y python-wstool python-rosdep ninja-build
```
* Now install cartographer_ros
```
$ wstool init src
$ wstool merge -t src https://raw.githubusercontent.com/googlecartographer/cartographer_ros/master/cartographer_ros.rosinstall
$ wstool update -t src
$ ./src/cartographer/scripts/install_proto3.sh
$ rosdep update
$ rosdep install --from-paths src --ignore-src --rosdistro=${ROS_DISTRO} -y
$ catkin_make_isolated --install --use-ninja
```
## Tutorials

### Tutorial 1: Run Cartographer ROS with a Recorded Bag File
I followed [this tutorial](https://google-cartographer-ros.readthedocs.io/en/latest/your_bag.html)

**WARNING:** Don't forget to source bash file in cartog_ws to run nodes related to cartographer_ros.
```
$ source cartog_ws/install_isolated/setup.bash
```

* First, check whether recorded bag file is usable by cartographer or not.
```
$ cartographer_rosbag_validate -bag_filename /home/user/oko_slam/ros_ws/bagfiles/bagfilename.bag
```

If you don't see any error, then you can go further. If you see error, try to fix it. Otherwise, keep the error in mind and proceed further. However, if you can not obtain a map, download a bag file from [this link](https://google-cartographer-ros.readthedocs.io/en/latest/demos.html) and follow the steps there. Then try to arrange your bag file accordingly!

* For our case launch oko_cartographer.launch. It calls [kamu_robotu.lua](/ros_ws/src/kamu_robotu/kamu_robotu_launch/params/kamu_robotu.lua) file which you need to copy to /home/user/cartog_ws/install_isolated/share/cartographer_ros/configuration_files directory. 
```
$ cd oko_slam/ros_ws/bagfiles/kamu_robotu.lua /home/user/cartog_ws/install_isolated/share/cartographer_ros/configuration_files
$ roslaunch kamu_robotu_launch oko_slam.launch slam_type:=cartographer
```

* Lastly play your bag file with clock
```
$ cd oko_slam/ros_ws/bagfiles/real_data
$ rosbag play --clock realmap3objects-linearvel30-lidar-4hz2.bag
```
If everything is okay you should be able to see the rviz output like below:
![Cartographer Rviz Output](/doc/images/cartographer_tutorials/1.png)
<center> Cartographer Rviz Output </center>

**NOTE:** The example bag file starts to publish data after some time. Therefore, if you see **no mapping received** warning in Rviz, please wait some time. However, if you can not see anything at the end even rosbag comes to end, then this means there is a problem about either installation or launch.
